Subject: RE: GCD Berlin preview: GPU access, service mesh, identity


Thanks, this is helpful, and the mesh and identity answers both land clearly.
Taking them in turn, with the GPU one first because that is the one still
blocking us.


ON GPUS

We would like them to be available too, but we cannot schedule one, and I want
to give you enough detail that you can tell us whether this is a capacity
allocation on your side or something we are doing wrong.

The hardware is catalogued. Both of these return results in our project:

  gcloud compute accelerator-types list
    nvidia-h100-80gb   u-germany-northeast1-a
    nvidia-h100-80gb   u-germany-northeast1-b

  gcloud compute machine-types list --filter="name~a3"
    a3-edgegpu-8g-nolssd   u-germany-northeast1-a   208 CPUs
    a3-edgegpu-8g-nolssd   u-germany-northeast1-b   208 CPUs

Note it appears in zones a and b only, not c.

We then tried four ways of asking for one on our Autopilot cluster. Two of them
GKE Warden rejects at admission, which is useful because it tells us the form
you expect:

  When requesting 'nvidia.com/gpu' resources, you must specify either node
  selector 'cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator' with accelerator type or node
  selector 'cloud.google.com/compute-class' with existing custom compute class
  which has at least one GPU priority rule.

So we used exactly that form:

  nodeSelector:
    cloud.google.com/compute-class: Accelerator
    cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: nvidia-h100-80gb
  resources:
    limits:
      nvidia.com/gpu: 8        (a full a3-edgegpu-8g-nolssd node)

and separately the same thing with nvidia.com/gpu: 1.

Both are admitted. Neither ever schedules. This is the verbatim result, still
reproducible today:

  Warning  FailedScheduling    gke.io/optimize-utilization-scheduler
    0/3 nodes are available: 3 node(s) didn't match Pod's node affinity/selector.
    no new claims to deallocate, preemption: 0/3 nodes are available:
    3 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling.

  Normal   NotTriggerScaleUp   cluster-autoscaler
    Pod didn't trigger scale-up: 6 node(s) didn't match Pod's node
    affinity/selector

The important detail is that this is not a quota error and not an out of
capacity error. The autoscaler reports a node affinity mismatch, which means it
has no GPU node shape it is willing to consider, so it never attempts to
provision. From our side that is indistinguishable from us having written the
manifest wrong, and it cost us most of a day before we concluded otherwise.

Separately, there is no quota metric for either the accelerator or the machine
family in our project:

  NVIDIA_H100_80GB_GPUS present : False
  A3_CPUS present               : False
  any metric containing H100    : none
  any metric containing A3      : none

So even if this is a quota matter, there is no metric for us to request an
increase against.

Project details for whoever picks this up: eu0:soloio-eval, project number
560780937444745, cluster "agentic", GKE Autopilot, u-germany-northeast1,
regular release channel.

What we are asking for:

1. Whether A3 or H100 capacity is actually allocated to this project, and in
   which zones.

2. Whether the Autopilot Accelerator compute class is enabled for this
   universe. The autoscaler behaves exactly as it would if the compute class
   exists but has no backing node configuration.

3. The quota metric name we should be requesting, so we can file for it.

4. Whether GPUs on GCD require a Standard cluster rather than Autopilot. This
   is the one we most need answered. The documented GKE offering here is
   Autopilot only, so if GPUs need Standard then this is an architectural
   question rather than a capacity one, and it also changes the mesh answer
   below.

Happy to run any probe you want and send the output, or to give someone
read access and let them look directly.


ON SERVICE MESH

Understood, and thank you for the dates. End of 2026 for operators and Q1 2027
for customers is useful for us to plan against.

It does mean that for the whole of the preview and the first year of general
availability, a customer running AI agents on GCD has no service mesh, no
mutual TLS between workloads, and no network policy, because GKE network
policy is not available here either. We are comfortable with that because our
gateway supplies tool level authorisation and audit without needing a mesh, and
we have that running and tested in Berlin now. But it is worth Google and Solo
saying the same thing to a regulated buyer, so I would rather agree the wording
with you than have it come up cold in a customer meeting.

One thing follows from the GPU question above. If GPUs turn out to need a
Standard cluster, then Standard clusters exist in this universe, and Istio
ambient becomes possible well before your Cloud Service Mesh date. That would
be worth knowing.


ON IDENTITY

That matches what we found and it is what we built against, so no concern. We
are running our own Keycloak inside the cluster as the OIDC issuer for our
control plane, and it works.

The one thing worth flagging is not a technical gap but a compliance one. With
no identity service in the universe, the credentials that authorise sovereign
workloads are issued by something the customer stands up themselves, and for a
software vendor that means shipping an IDP as part of the product. Customer
compliance teams will ask where the root of trust for workload identity sits.
Worth a documented reference pattern from Google, because every vendor is going
to solve it differently otherwise.

Yes please to the additional workspace accounts. Right now
preview-soloio@id-berlin-build0.goog is a shared org level account, so there is
no per person attribution in the audit log. That is fine for our evaluation but
we would rather test the model a real customer would use, and it would let us
demonstrate per user access control properly.


WHERE WE ARE OTHERWISE

The full platform is deployed and working in Berlin, provisioned as code. Agents,
tool servers, the agent catalogue, the identity layer, the gateway and a self
hosted model, all inside the sovereign boundary with nothing leaving it. We can
show an agent being published to a catalogue and deployed into the cluster by
that catalogue, calling a governed tool, with the tool call visible in a trace.

The only thing we cannot show is that running on a GPU with a model of the size
a customer would actually use.

We have a written technical record with verbatim output for all of the above and
can share it with your engineering team whenever useful.
